Date of this report:      3 May 2005
Date of previous report: 27 Apr 2005

Recent Events
=============
-- since last report --
15 Apr 2005 12:25:59  Sherlock joins Work of Art.
12 Apr 2005 21:04:45  Maud joins Work of Art.
12 Apr 2005 20:58:08  root joins Work of Art.
12 Apr 2005 20:40:58  Manu forms Work of Art.
 7 Apr 2005 01:58:02  Pakaran is deregistered; Pakaran's Contest
                       dissolves.
 8 Mar 2005 23:51:37  root joins ChessNut.  Or so e tells me.
 8 Mar 2005 23:24:05  Manu forms a contest entitled ChessNut.
 3 Mar 2005 23:29:19  Goddess Eris leaves Pakaran's Contest.
18 Feb 2005 22:18:27  root leaves Claustronomic, causing it to dissolve.

Organizations
=============

Key:
      A: Administrator
      E: Executor
      M: Maintainer of Charter


Name: ChessNut
       Type: Contest
       Members:
         + Manu (AEM)
         + root

Name: Work of Art
       Type: Contest
       Members:
         + Manu (AEM)
         + Maud
         + root
         + Sherlock


Charters
========

1. ChessNut

---
REGULATIONS
---

1. This Contest is a game of Chess. 

2. The limit of Contestants (hereafter the Chessmastors) in this
Contest (hereafter the Tournament) is two and two is the maximum of
Chessmastors in the Tournament. One Chessmastor is not enough for a
proper game of Chess and three Chessmastors are way too many. Four is
right out. The Contestmaster (hereafter, Bobby) shall never count as a
Chessmastor toward this limit.

3. Any Agora player can join the Tournament by notifying Bobby,
providing less than two Chessmastors are already in the Tournament.

4. As soon as two Agora players have joined the Tournament, Bobby
shall randomly assign the adjective "White" to one Chessmastor and the
adjective "Black" to the other Chessmastor.

5. Immediately after the two Chessmastors have been assigned their
adjectives, the Chess Game officially starts. The Chess Game follows
Standard Chess Rules.

6. The White Chessmastor plays the first move - e has the Turn. Once e
has played eir move, the Turn goes to the Black Chessmastor. And so
on. If a Chessmastor who has the Turn does not send eir Move to Bobby
after 7 days from the last valid move, Bobby shall send a friendly
reminder to the Chessmastor. A not-so-friendly reminder shall be sent
if the same Chessmastor has still not sent eir move 7 days after the
first reminder.

7. Once the move has been decided by the Chessmastor who has the Turn,
e must send the move indications to Bobby. The Turn is now transfered
to the other Chessmastor. Providing the move is valid, Bobby will
update the Chess Board and send a new version to both Chessmastors as
soon as possible. A copy of the Chess Board and all previous moves can
be requested at any time by anyone, including people not in the
Tournament.

8. A move is considered valid if it respects the regular Chess
Format. "Bishop in A5 to C7" and "A5:C7" are both valid move formats,
as far as Bobby is concerned. If a move is considered by Bobby to be
invalid, either in format or according to the Rules, the move is
cancelled providing Bobby has support from at least one other
Chessmastor. If a move is found to be invalid, all other moves (if
any) after that move are immediately cancelled and never took
place. Once the error is corrected, play can resume normally. A
Chessmastor keeps the Turn until e plays a valid and legal move. No
Chessmastor can ever lose the Turn without moving a piece first.

9. At any time, Bobby can modify the Regulations of the Tournament,
provided a copy of the new Regulations is sent as soon as possible to
the Notary and all Chessmastors. If a Chessmastor (hereafter the
Nitpicker) should disagree with the new Regulations, e may raise an
objection to Bobby in the 72 hours following the new Regulations'
publication. The new Regulations do not take effect until the
Nitpicker agrees with the changes made by Bobby. No Nitpicker may
object the Regulations in effect at the moment e joined the
Tournament.

10. If a Chessmastor wins a Chess Game, it is the duty of Bobby to
hail the Winner's name to all Agora players and require serious
applauds from everyone. Immediately following the announce, all
Chessmastors shall cease to be Chessmastors and be expelled from This
Very Fine Contest. Anyone can request a full replay of the Chess Game
to Bobby.

11. Bobby shall keep a record of the Score. The Score is a list of all
past and present Chessmastors and the total number of Chess Games they
have won. The Score can be requested by any Chessmastor or Agora
player at any time.

12. If e wishes so, Bobby can leave the Tournament and name one
Chessmastor to become Bobby in eir place. If the Chessmastor accepts,
Bobby cease to be a Contestmaster and a Contestant in the Tournament
and the named Chessmastor becomes Bobby. Immediately after this event,
the remaining Chessmastor cease to be a Chessmastor and Agora players
may now join the Tournament and start a new Chess Game following these
Regulations.

13. If Bobby becomes Silent, the Chess Game is immediately cancelled
and the Contest named ChessNut shall cease to exist.

14. Simply for your information, here is an example of a Chess Board:

  abcdefgh
 |--------|
8|t.bqr.kt| The Blacks
7|ppppppbp|
6| .k. . .|
5|. . . p |
4| P . .P.|
3|. . . . |
2|P.PPPPBP| The Whites
1|TKBQR KT|
 |--------|

[If for some reason the above piece of awesome ASCII art looks like
crap, copy/paste it in notepad, vi, pico, etc.]

---
END OF REGULATIONS
---

2. Work of Art

Work of Art Regulations v2

---
REGULATIONS
---

1. Anybody can join Work of Art by notifying the Contestmaster
(hereafter, the Publisher).

2. There exists a body of text named The Nomicon. The Publisher is
responsible for distributing The Nomicon to all Contestants once a
week.

3. Any Contest Member may submit a body of text to the Publisher by
clearly indicating that it is intended to become a Paragraph. Upon
submission, the Paragraph is added to the Muse Bag and the Member who
submitted that text becomes the Novelist of that Paragraph.

4. At any time a Member may remove a Paragraph from the Muse Bag,
provided e is the Novelist of that Paragraph, by publicly notifying
the Publisher.

5. The Deadline is every Sunday at 00:00 GMT. Once a week, the
Publisher shall distribute to all Members all Paragraphs that were
added in the Muse Bag before the most recent Deadline and announce the
start of the Content Selection period. If there are no Paragraph to
distribute, the Publisher shall announce this fact to all Members.

6. The Content Selection lasts seven days, starting the moment the
Publisher announces the start of the Content Selection period.

7. During the Content Selection period, all Members who have been in
Work of Art for at least seven continuous days may vote exactly once
on each and every Paragraph that were distributed by the Publisher. A
vote upon a Paragraph must be one of FOR or AGAINST. Something which
is not one of these is not a vote upon a Paragraph. Votes must be sent
to the Publisher, either privately or publicly, to be valid. If a
Member votes more than once on a given Paragraph, only the last vote
is valid.

8. As soon as possible after the end of the Content Selection period
on a given Paragraph, the Publisher shall publish all the Votes cast
upon that Paragraph.

9. Once the Content Selection for a Paragraph has ended, the valid
votes which have been legally cast shall be counted by the Publisher
for all distributed Paragraphs. If a Paragraph receives more FOR votes
than AGAINST votes, the Paragraph is adopted. If a Paragraph is not
adopted, it is removed from the Muse Bag and returned to the Novelist
only if e included a self-addressed stamped enveloppe with eir
Paragraph.

10. An adopted Paragraph is appended to The Nomicon by the Publisher
in the exact same form it was received, including whitespaces.  If
more than one Paragraph is adopted, they shall be appended to The
Nomicon in the order they were originally added to the Muse Bag.

11. At any time, the Publisher may modify the Regulations of Work of
Art, provided a copy of the new Regulations is sent as soon as
possible to the Notary and all Contestants. If a Contestant (hereafter
the Nitpicker) should disagree with the new Regulations, e may raise
an objection to the Publisher in the 72 hours following the new
Regulations' publication. The new Regulations do not take effect until
the Nitpicker agrees with the changes made by The Publisher. No
Nitpicker may object the Regulations in effect at the moment e joined
the Contest.

---
END OF REGULATIONS
---

-- 
Michael Slone (Justiciar Maud)
