From: kelly@poverty.bloomington.in.us (Kelly Martin)
Subject: Agora Nomic Seeks Players
Date: 1995/05/03
Message-ID: <9505030950.2wkb@poverty.bloomington.in.us>
X-Deja-AN: 101812497
sender: nobody@cs.utexas.edu
organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
newsgroups: alt.fan.hofstadter,rec.games.abstract,talk.politics.misc

Ok, you've read the subject line.  Now, you're doubtless asking
yourself a few questions.  Allow me to try to answer some of them:

** What is Nomic?

Asking the question "What is Nomic?" is like asking the question "What
is a hacker?" or "What is Zen?" - people tend to get all mystical and
cryptic, and you end up with no real idea at all. :)

Nomic is a game, and it is a lot of FUN! Unlike most games, the rules
of Nomic are not written in stone. In fact, the object of the game is
to make changes to the rules of the game. Players start off following
some "initial ruleset", which dictates how the rules can be changed.
Once a rule change has been made, players then follow this new rule
set.  Most importantly, the rules about how rule changes are made can
themselves be changed!

This is where it tends to get mystical, because as a result of these
rule changes, the game you are playing will change from moment to
moment. The nature of the rule changing mechanism might change from
democratic to capitalist, to communist, to whatever. Or the ability to
chnage the rules might be removed entirely - perhaps the game will
turn into chess, or tag, or snap. The future of the game is entirely
in the hands of the players.

Most nomic enthusiasts seem to enjoy playing nomic in order to
experience the possibilities of different kinds of lawmaking
processes, and also to exercise their ingenuity in trying to discover
loopholes in the rules which give unusual results - mostly to the
benefit of the player. (This is called "scamming", and is lots of fun!
:)

"In my commentary on the game (only in my book? or also in SciAm?) I
distinguish 'procedural' from 'substantive' games.  In substantive
games, players play to earn points and win.  In procedural games, they
try to tie the rules into knots, either for the logical fun of it or
in order to win by paradox rather than by points." -- Peter Suber

For the record, Nomic was conceived and designed by Peter Suber, and
first published in Douglas Hofstadter's column "Metamagical Themas" in
Scientific American in 1982, and later in Hofstadter's book, by the
same name. Peter revised the rules and published them in his own book,
"The Paradox of Self Amendment" in 1990.  See section 6 of the Nomic
FAQ for references.

** What is Agora Nomic?

Agora is one of the better-known, larger, and older email Nomic games.
Agora (formerly known as "Yoyo", for the name of the machine which
hosted the mailing lists), was started in June of 1993, and has run
pretty much continuously since.  Agora currently has 19 players
and 164 rules (these change constantly, of course).

Agora Nomic is played on three mailing lists hosted by teleport.com.
The names of the lists are nomic-official (for official pronouncements
as required by the Rules), nomic-business (for important but
unofficial announcements) and nomic-discussion (for anything else).
To subscribe to any of these lists, send mail to
"majordomo@teleport.com" with the line

	subscribe <list>

in the text of the message, where <list> is one of nomic-official,
nomic-business, and nomic-discussion.  Players are strongly urged to
subscribe to the first two lists.  The third list (nomic-discussion)
cna be _very_ busy, so some players choose to unsubscribe to spare
their mailboxes if they will be away for a short while.  Problems or
questions about the mailing lists may be addressed to the Distributor,
Coren Heavysege (at coren@teleport.com).

Agora's current Ruleset is 134K long and, IMO, not suitable for
posting to the newsgroup.  Parties interested in obtaining a copy
should email myself (at kelly@poverty.bloomington.in.us) or the
current Rulekeepor, Chuck Carroll (ccarroll@students.wisc.edu), or
obtain a copy via the Web at the URL
"http://dfw.net/~ccarroll/agora/rules/".

As a point of information, of the original Immutables, _none_ remain
unaltered; of the original Mutables, only three remain altered.

Agora always welcomes new Players; interested parties should subscribe
to the mailing lists for a while, obtain a Ruleset, and announce their
intent to play when ready.  There are very few restrictions on who may
register to Play; in general, we welcome all who are interested.

As always, any questions about Agora Nomic may be addressed to its
Ambassador, Kelly Martin (kelly@poverty.bloomington.in.us). 

Kelly Martin
Ambassador of Agora Nomic


