Proto
Proposal/Index Consolidation and Reform

Repeal Rules 594, 993, 955, 1322, and 376.

Create the following Rule, entitled "Game State Modifications":
      Everything which modifies the State of Agora Nomic in any way is a 
      Game State Modification (GSM).  GSMs fall into several categories:
      * Automated GSMs.  Automated GSMs are GSMs which take place without 
        being performed by a person.  They are specified in the Ruleset to 
        occur when certain conditions become true.  AGSMs may only take effect 
        if they are mandated by a Rule with MI greater than or equal to the 
        Inertia of the AGSM.
      * Proposed GSMs.  Proposed GSMs are GSMs which take place upon the 
        adoption of a Proposal.  They may be referred to as GSMs during the 
        Voting Period of the Proposal in which they are contained, but cannot 
        take effect until that Proposal passes, if ever.
      * Manual GSMs.  A Manual GSM is an action by a person (not necessarily 
        a Player) which somehow changes the State of Agora Nomic.  Note that a 
        Manual GSM is almost always the "trigger" for an Automated or Proposed 
        GSM to take effect.

{Comment:
Although not strictly necessary, this poses a convenient way to 
specify certain things elsewhere in this legislation, and can be used 
by all sorts of other types of legislation.  Once this is in place, 
and my redefinition of Power (vs. Inertia), we can eliminate the
distinction between Proposed Rule Change and Directive, both being PGSMs.}

Create the following Rule, entitled "Proposal-Related Indices":
      There is a Voting Index (VI) associated with every Proposal, which 
      represents the support received for that Proposal.  If the Proposal 
      received zero AGAINST Votes, and one or more FOR Votes, its VI is 
      Unanimity.  If the Proposal received zero FOR Votes, its VI is zero.  
      In all other cases, the VI is equal to the number of FOR Votes divided 
      by the number of AGAINST Votes.

      There is an Adoption Index (AI) associated with every Proposal, which 
      represents how much support that Proposal needs to pass.  The AI is 
      calculated once the Inertia of every PGSM contained within the Proposal 
      is known.  The AI is equal to the greatest Inertia Index of all PGSMs 
      within the Proposal.

      There is a Inertia Index (II) associated with every Proposed GSM and 
      every Automated GSM, which represents how difficult it will be for 
      that GSM to take effect.  No II may be less than 1.  The Inertia Index 
      of every AGSM and PGSM is 1 unless specified elsewhere in the Ruleset.

      There is a Mutability Index (MI) associated with every Rule, which 
      represents how difficult it will be to change that Rule.  The MI of a 
      newly Created Rule is 1, but may be modified thereafter.

{Comment:
This stuff should be centralized and well-defined.  That's mostly what 
I'm doing here, plus I'm changing Power a bit.  Now, instead of saying 
each GSM has a Power derived from AI or MI, and does or doesn't take 
effect based on that, I say that each GSM has an Inertia based on what 
it's trying to do, from which the AI is derived.  I'm pretty sure this 
removes the circularity.}

Create the following Rule, entitled "Inertia of Rule Changes":
      The Inertia Index of a Creation Rule Change is equal to the MI specified
      for the New Rule, or 1 if no MI is specified.

      The Inertia Index of a Repeal Rule Change or an Amendment Rule Change is
      equal to the MI of the Rule to be Repealed or Amended.

      The Inertia Index of a Mutation Rule Change is the greater of the current
      MI of the affected Rule and the MI to which the Rule would be Mutated by
      the Rule Change.

{Comment:
This is a stopgap, because I don't feel like tackling the MI=3 Rule 105
just yet, at least not as part of this multipart proto--maybe later, once
GSMs have proven their worth.}

Rules 1052, 1054, and 1416 shall be Amended by replacing occurrences of
      "The Proposal containing such a Directive must have an Adoption
      Index of at least 2."
with
      "Directives of this type have an Inertia Index of 2."

Rules 649, 1044, and 1070 shall be Amended by replacing all sentences
which contain the phrase "Adoption Index" with the following sentence:
      "Directives of this type have an Inertia Index of 1."

Rule 1453 shall be Amended by replacing occurrences of "Adoption Index"
with "Inertia Index".

{Comment:
This fixes up all the Directive types with Inertias. (Inertiae?)}

Create the following Rule, entitled "Proposals":
      Directives and Rule Changes which are contained in Proposals are 
      collectively referred to as Proposed Game State Modifications (PGSMs).  
      A Proposal contains one or more PGSMs.

      When the Voting Period for a Proposal has ended, the Votes which have 
      been legally cast shall be counted by the Assessor, and the Voting 
      Index calculated.  If the Voting Index is greater than the Adoption 
      Index for the given Proposal, then that Proposal shall pass.  If the 
      Voting Index exactly equals the Adoption Index, then the Assessor 
      shall choose whether the Proposal passes or fails.  If the Voting 
      Index is less than the Adoption Index, the Proposal shall fail.

      A Proposal which passes takes effect at the time datestamped on the 
      first message sent by the Assessor to reach the Public Forum 
      announcing the results of the Voting on that Proposal.

      If a single message sent by the Assessor contains the Voting results 
      on several Proposals, all such Proposals shall take effect at the same 
      time, but in order by increasing Proposal Number.  When a Proposal 
      takes effect, the PGSMs contained therein take effect in the order in 
      which they appear in the Proposal.

{Comment:
This is, essentially, the material currently in 376, 594, 993, and 
955, minus the stuff about calculating AI and VI.}



Proto
Implement GSM language in 108

Rule 108 shall be Amended as follows, and given the title "When May 
GSMs Take Effect?":

      No Automated GSM may take effect earlier than the adoption of the 
      current form of the Rule which requires it.  No Proposed GSM may take 
      effect earlier than the adoption of the Proposal in which it is 
      contained.  A Manual GSM, by definition, takes effect exactly when the 
      person making the GSM executes the action which modifies the Game 
      State.

      No Automated or Proposed GSM may have retroactive application.

{Comment:
Obviously, I would not Propose this until the GSM system was fairly 
well entrenched--I'd like to make sure my definitions work before 
diddling with the immutables.  (Well, not *really* immutable, but you
know.)  This is an almost exact translation of the former 108, though, 
except for the bit about manual GSMs.}
