Proto
Secrecy

The following Rule shall be created:
      Secrecy in Agora is a legal term defining a class of information which
      is not to be divulged.

      A type or information is classified as Secret if the Ruleset designates
      it to be.  The Ruleset may delegate this ability to certain other
      Entities, and may qualify that delegation by limiting the authority to
      declare information Secret to only a few specific type of information.

      No information which is required to be public information (through
      posting to the Public Forum or availability upon request) may be Secret.

      A Player who is in charge of Secret information need not reveal
      that information, except to a Judge who has Subpoenaed it.


Proto
Subpoenae

The following Rule shall be created:

      A Judge or Justice of a CFJ may at any time make a Subpoena on any
      information which is part of the Agora Nomic Game State.  To do so,
      e must tell the Player in charge of that information that it is being
      Subpoenaed.  That Player must then, within 72 hours, send an accurate
      copy of the material to the Judge or Justice who has Subpoenaed it.

      A Subpoena is even Valid and must be honoured for material which is
      Secret or not required to be made public, including (but not limited
      to):

      * Contracts (kept by the Notary)

      * Group Ordinances (kept by that Group's Ordinancekeepor)

      * Current status of Currencies, whether previously published or not
        (kept by various Officers and Viziers)

      * Votes on a Proposal whose Voting Period has ended (kept by the
        Assessor)

      The only part of the Game State which may *not* be Subpoenaed is the
      current tally of Votes on any Proposal still within its Voting Period.

      The penalty for not sending a Subpoenaed material is two Blots.

      If certain information is Secret, it may be used to make a Judgement but
      shall not be published.  The Penalty to a Judge or Justice who reveals
      Secret information as part of eir Judgement is four Blots.  The CotC is
      responsible for reporting this Penalty, unless e is the Judge or Justice
      who revealed the Secret information, in which case it is the Speaker's
      responsibility.

      This Rule takes precedence over any Rule which requires material to be
      kept secret.
