For those who care, this Proposal eliminates 19 lines.  "Vote" is still
overloaded, but now only means: the opinion of an Entity on a Proposal,
irrespective of that Entity's Clouts; and the entire voting process for
a given proposal.

As usual, comments are welcome.

PROTO-PROPOSAL: Eliminate "vote" ambiguity.

PREFACE

    Due to minor confusions regarding the terminology surrounding
    the Voting Procedure, a slight rearrangement of terms shall
    occur.  In general, the following transformations will occur:
	Extra Votes will be renamed to "Alia".
	The concept of "Voting Entities" will be abolished.
	"Clouts" will be the units of voting power; they correspond to
		the total number of votes one possesses (regular or
		Extra), currently.  Each Player will automatically get
		one Clout per Proposal.
	"Voters" will now be called "Peers".

    A side goal of this Proposal is to begin simplifying the Ruleset
    by including summary statements in Rules, which can not be
    construed as binding, but which provide a broad statement about
    the way the rule works.  Such statements are signalled by phrases
    like "In general,..." or "Generally speaking,...".

SECTION I
Changing the misnomer "Voter"

    All occurrences of the word "Voter" shall be replaced with
    "Peer", and "Voters" with "Peers", in the following Rules:
    103, 112, 1042, and 1043.

    In addition, the Title of Rule 103 shall be changed to "The
    Speaker and the Peers".

SECTION IIa
The Basics of the Alia/Clout system

    Rule 206 ("Voting Entities and Votes") shall have its Title
    changed to "Clouts and Voting", and shall be Amended to read as
    follows:

      The Clout (plural "Clouts") is an Agoran Entity.  Each Clout is
      possessed by exactly one Entity, and is associated with one
      Proposal.  Clouts may not be transferred.

      Generally speaking, the number of Clouts an Entity possesses
      indicates that Entity's influence on the Vote.

      When a Proposal is Promoted, each Player and each Group with at
      least three Players receives one Clout associated with that
      Proposal.  These Clouts are created.

      Clouts are said to be Cast For, Against, or Neutral to their
      Proposal, based on the Vote of the Entity which possesses them.

      No Entity may ever possess more than five Clouts associated with
      any one Proposal.

(15/12)

    Rule 1477 ("Extra Votes") shall have its Title changed to "Aliae",
    and shall be Amended to read as follows:

      The Alia (plural "Aliae") is a Currency.  The MUQ of the Alia is
      1.  The Recordkeepor of the Alia is the Assessor.  The Mintor of
      the Alia is the Mint.

      Generally speaking, Aliae are used to increase influence on a
      Vote.

(3/5)

    Rule 1442 ("Using Extra Votes") shall have its Title changed to
    "Spending Aliae", and shall be Amended to read as follows:

      In general, a Player may spend one Alia to receive one Clout on
      a specified Proposal.

      Aliae are spent when an Entity notifies the Assessor that e is
      spending an Alia, and for which Proposal it is spent.  When an
      Entity spends an Alia, one Alia is transferred from that Entity
      to the Bank, and one Clout associated with the spent-on Proposal
      is created in the possession of the Entity.

      An Alia is not spent if a Vote on the specified Proposal is not
      currently in progress, or if the spending Entity already has
      more than eir maximum Clouts on the specified Proposal.  This
      maximum is ordinarily 2, but may be raised as specified in other
      Rules.  Only Players and Groups may spend Aliae.

      All transfers required by this Rule shall be detected and
      reported by the Assessor.

(14/14)

    Rule 1547 is Repealed.

(5/0)

SECTION IIb
The Voting Process

    Rule 683 ("Legal Votes") shall be Amended to read as follows:

      A Vote which is Cast is either For, Against, or Neutral to a
      Proposal.  Any obvious synonym to these is acceptable.

      A Vote is Cast when an Entity's Executor sends that Entity's
      Vote to the Assessor.  Other rules may specify Vote timing of
      Entities without Executors.

      A Vote on a Proposal is legally Cast if it is Cast during the
      Voting Period of that Proposal.

(13/7)

   Rule 955 ("Votes Required to Adopt a Proposal") shall have its Title
   changed to "Proposal Adoption" and shall be Amended to read as
   follows:

     When the Voting Period on a Proposal has ended, the Proposal shall
     be assigned a Voting Index, as follows.  If the Proposal received
     no Clouts Against and at least one Clout For, the Voting Index is
     Unanimity.  Otherwise, the Voting Index shall be the total Clouts
     cast For the Proposal divided by the total Clouts cast Against.

     If the Voting Index is greater than the Adoption Index for a given
     Proposal, or if both equal Unanimity, the Proposal passes.
     Otherwise, it fails.

(11/8)

    Rule 208 ("End of the Voting Period") shall be Amended by replacing
    the word "Votes" with the phrase "Votes and Clouts".

(3/3)

SECTION III
Renaming EVs and bootstrapping Aliae

    All occurrences of the term "Extra Vote" or "EV" shall be replaced
    with "Alia", and "Extra Votes" or "EVs" with "Aliae", in the
    text and Titles of the following Rules: 1047, 1465, 1521, 1525,
    1540, and 1543.

    The following Rule shall be Created:

      For every Treasury, the number of Aliae in that Treasury is set
      equal to the number of Extra Votes which were in the Treasury
      prior to the passage of the Proposal which enacted this Rule.

      Once this is accomplished, this Rule repeals itself.

(0/4)

SECTION IV
Inactivity

    Rule 1584 ("Absolvement of Duty for On Hold Players") shall be
    Amended to read as follows:

      An On Hold Player is not permitted to make Proposals, or hold
      Office, and cannot be required by the Rules to perform any duty
      or action, unless that Rule specifically states that it can
      require On Hold Players to perform actions.

      This Rule takes precedence over every other Rule.

(5/5)

    The following Rule ("Clouts and Inactivity") shall be created:
    
      When a Player goes On Hold, every Clout possessed by em shall be
      destroyed.  When a Player is On Hold, e receives no Clouts for
      any reason.  When a Player comes Off Hold, e receives one Clout
      for every Proposal for which a Vote is in progress.

(0/4)

SECTION V
Powers

    Rule 1522 ("The Power of Influence") shall be Amended to read as
    follows:

      There is a Power called the Power of Influence. A Player on
      whom the Power of Influence is cast is called an Influential
      Player. The effect of the Power of Influence is to increase
      the maximum number of Clouts which the Influential Player may
      possess for a single Proposal, specified by the Caster, called
      the Influenced Proposal. The maximum number of Clouts which may
      be possessed by the Influential Player for the Influenced
      Proposal may be increased to 3, 4, or 5, depending on the price
      last paid to the Bank in order to purchase the Power. The
      purchase price of the Power of Influence increases according to
      the extent of the Influence granted by the use of the Power, and
      this greater influence is granted by the Power of Influence
      only if the Bank is paid for it, as set out below:

      A maximum of 3 Clouts :  10 Mil
      A maximum of 4 Clouts :  25 Mil
      A maximum of 5 Clouts :  50 Mil

      A Player casts the Power of Influence by sending a message to
      the Assessor specifying which player is to be the Influential
      Player, and which Proposal is to be the Influential Proposal.

      If this Rule conflicts in its effects with those of another
      Rule defining a specific Power, then the conflict shall be
      resolved according to the Rule for determining precedence
      among Powers.

(23/23)

    Rule 1523 ("The Power of Quiet") shall be Amended to read as
    follows:

      There is Power called the Power of Quiet. There are 3 Quiet
      Cards. The purchase price for each of these Cards is 5 Mil.
      The effect of this Power is to prevent the Player on whom it is
      cast, called the Quiet Player, from spending any Aliae on a
      Proposal specified by the Caster, called the Quiet Proposal.
      The Power of Quiet may not be cast by the Assessor.

      A Quiet Player is not permitted to spend Aliae on their Quiet
      Proposal. If a Quiet Player has already spent Aliae on their
      Quiet Proposal at the time they become Quiet, then all but one
      of that Player's Clouts for that Proposal are destroyed, and an
      equal number of Aliae is transferred from the Bank to that
      Player.  The Assessor is responsible for detecting and reporting
      these transfers.

      The Caster casts the Power of Quiet by sending a message to the
      Assessor unambiguously identifying the Player who is to be
      the Quiet Player, and the Proposal which is to be the Quiet
      Proposal. Unless this condition is met, the Power is not
      legally cast.

      This Rule takes precedence over other Rules which describe the
      circumstances in which Players may legally spend Aliae, with the
      exception of Rules which describe the effects of other Powers.
      This Rule also takes precedence over other Rules which describe
      the effects of legally spent Aliae.

      If this Rule conflicts in its effects with those of another
      Rule defining a specific Power, then the conflict shall be
      resolved according to the Rule for determining precedence
      among Powers.

(28/28)

SECTION VI
Miscellaneous

    Rule 833 ("Reward or Penalty for Proposing") shall be Amended to
    read as follows:

      In general, a Proposer receives Mils equal to the margin of
      passage of eir Proposal.  This is often termed "F-A".

      At the end of the Voting Period on a Proposal, the Assessor
      shall calculate the number of Clouts cast by Players For a
      Proposal, minus the number of Clouts cast by Players Against a
      Proposal.

      If this number is positive, and the Proposal was not
      Disinterested, the Proposer receives that many Mils.

      If this number is negative, the Proposer loses that many Mils.

      The Assessor shall report the transfers required by this Rule no
      later than the announcement of the results of the Proposal.

(16/11)

    Rule 1653 ("Groups and Unity Vote") shall be Amended to read as
    follows:

      In general, a Group with a unanimous opinion can gain greater
      influence by declaring a Unity Vote.

      If a Group has Clouts for a Proposal, its Vizier may declare a
      Unity Vote on that Proposal by notifying the Assessor.  When a
      Unity Vote is declared, two Aliae are transferred from the Group
      to the Bank.

      If all members of the Group cast the same Vote as the Group
      itself, the Group's Clout maximum is raised to three, and the
      Group receives two Clouts associated with that Proposal.  In
      addition, two Aliae are transferred to the Group.

      If at least one Group member does not cast the same Vote as the
      Group, all the Group's Clouts for that Proposal are destroyed.

(18/12)
