Significant Changes:  Everything.  In 17-1, I have eliminated all mentions
of Queues (happy, Kelly? :), although technically what is described is a
Queue.  The order of determination of whose proposals get distributed is
first-come, first-serve.

I have added the "Emergency Proposal"... it carries a rather stiff penalty
(not being able to Propose for a Week), but if the cause is sufficient, it
should be fine.  If it passes, the Proposer receives eir 10 point penalty
back, and a 5 point bonus besides.

Proposal Retraction is essentially the same as before (what does anyone
think of that, anyway..?)

Instead of Clumping I have introduced Linking... which is one-way, and
can depend on other Players' Proposals, as well.  For two Proposals
which a Player wants mutually Linked, the fee is 2 points; beyond that,
it would be easier just to use multi-Part Proposals.  Linking is very
versatile;  for a group of five proposals, one of which is independent
and the other four of which are dependent on the first (but not each
other), Linking is definitely the way to go.  Also, if your Proposal
depends on another Proposal by Player Foo which was distributed three
days ago, you can Link that way too.  Fee is merely 1 point.

The Extra fee for more Proposals rule is still repealed in proto 17-5,
and the Speaker is legislated to distribute once a week or every ten
proposals... 

Proto-PROPOSAL DB17-1 (Vanyel)
Submission of Votes
Amend Rule 1036 to read as follows:

The maximum number of distributed Proposals shall be the number of
Active Players at the beginning of the Nomic Week.  Proposals shall
be sent to the Speaker.  When it is time (as specified elsewhere)
for the Speaker to distribute Proposals, e shall distribute as many
as possible without exceeding the Proposal limit, beginning with
those Proposals submitted first.

Any Proposal which, according to another Rule, is "put up for Vote",
shall be distributed As Soon As Possible by the Speaker.  This may
cause an excess of Proposals; this is disregarded in this case only.

Proto-PROPOSAL DB17-2 (Vanyel)
Emergency Proposal

If a Player deems a Proposal important e may submit it as an Emergency
Proposal.  In order to do this, e must pay a fee of 10 Points and must
forego Proposing anything else (including another Emergency Proposal)
for a full week.  If e submits a Proposal during this time it shall
be considered improperly submitted, and shall not be Voted on.  An 
Emergency Proposal shall be put up for Vote immediately.  If the
Emergency Proposal passes, the Player shall receive 15 Points.  

This Rule takes precedence over any Rule which would prevent 
Emergency Proposals from being submitted, distributed, or Voted on.

PROTO-Proposal DB17-3 (Vanyel)
Proposal Retraction

The only way a Proposal may be prematurely retracted by a Player 
is if e, the Player, specifically requests such to the Speaker.
The Player may not replace a Proposal with another; if e retracts
it, e can only replace it by submitting another Proposal.  Any 
retractions shall destroy a Proposal irrevocably.

The Player may also request that a Proposal authored by em
be removed from the Proposals up for Vote by stating such to the Public 
Forum.  In such a case, any points which would be received as a direct
result of that Proposal shall be distributed; then, that Proposal
will be irrevocably retracted.  Any points which have been spent on
Vototron contributions are returned, and any Votes cast for that
Proposal shall be disregarded.

PROTO-Proposal DB17-4 (Vanyel)
Proposal Linking

A Player may Link a Proposal made by em to any other.  This is
accomplished by a message to the Speaker or to the Public Forum, and
requires a fee of 1 Point.  If the Proposal which was Linked to does
not pass, then the Proposal which was Linked does not take effect.
This does not affect F-A bonuses.

This Rule takes precedence over Rule 955.

Proto-PROPOSAL DB17-5 (Vanyel)
Repeal 1065

Rule 1065 shall be Repealed.

Proto-PROPOSAL DB17-6 (Vanyel)
Distribution of Proposals

The Speaker shall distribute Proposals if and only if the following 
conditions are met:
	-There are more than 10 undistributed Proposals, or any undistributed
	 Proposals older than six days old, and
	-The limit on Proposals (if any) has not been met.
***END PROTO SUITE

proposal history:
first proto 7 Oct 12:35 PM CDT
second proto 14 Oct 5:43 PM CDT
third proto (suite) 8 Nov 7:00 PM CST
fourth proto (suite) 15 Nov 4:30 AM CST
fifth proto (suite) 15 Nov 5:45 PM CST

Comments, questions?
